In this video we will learn about data types so we will understand why we need to data types so let me remind
you, already I said that a program is a set of two ingredients.
That is data and instruction or operations that are performed on the data I have shown how the program
runs and said the memory I have shown.
There are three sections that code section and stack.
Okay I'm showing stock here and that is heap.
So stack will contain data that is all the variables.
Then this will contain instructions this we have already seen in previous one of the videos.
Now we are writing the program so that they perform operations on data and get some results.
That is computational results.
We want our work to be done by machines by executing programs.
So let us understand how we work in daily life.
So in daily life we use that data in various places like for example the amount of bill amount
that is the total amount or the price of some item or your roll number your marks.
You are door number, bestie name, your name.
Various things are there, this is nothing but data right.
So this data how we use it in our daily life and what computations we perform.
Let us understand this fast.
So I will categorize the data we use two types of data in our daily life.
One is numeric data that is set of numbers or figures.
Then we use character type data right.
Character types are not words or sentences or names names of places.
That is in the form of character.
You can also call this as alphabetic type of data.
So data is either numeric or alphabetic or you can say character and sometime we use mix often numeric
and alphabetic like if I'm writing a door number, suppose 125-A, that's a door number.
And this is having on a number as well as alphabet.
So let us consider this also as alphabetical and do it as having numbers but alphabet side.
Let us call it as alphabetic otherwise you can say alpha-numeric.
But basically it is like a character only, leave it.
Now I would pick up these two one by one.
I will explain more detail about this.
So let us pick up numeric if I have a number that is the prize or for some item.
Let us see it is 12 dollars or a roll number of a student.
That is twenty five is the rule number or the bill amount is fifteen dollars thirty five cents fifteen
point three five.
So if you observe this is not having decimal and this is having decimal.
So with this I can say that in daily life we use two type of numbers.
One is that with a decimal, without decimal.
We don't usually differentiate them we say it's a number only but when it comes to computers remember
that number has to be represented in binary form right.
It has to be present in binary form.
Then how do you represent a decimal.
So it's a problem.
So it has to be handled specially.
So we our decimal numbers are different and with decimal numbers are different.
So all electronic devices like computer or your mobile phone or calculator anything if you take all
electronic devices with numbers are used they treat these two numbers differently because there is an extra
effort required for presenting decimal point number so I will categorize this number as integer
that is without a decimal.
And next is floating point with the decimal. floating point means decimal
only right.
So the way of representing the decimal number is a approach is called Floating Point.
So this you will understand later.
So now I have to type off numbers integer and floating point.
This is how, not just C++, all the programming languages present day programming languages like C C++
Java C sharp Python anything you take they differentiate the data like this and floating point as a
standard all machine follow the same method for representing decimal point the next coming onto this
side that is characters.
So here if I write a name that is Mark or Anil, these are the names or name of a place Delhi, right? or
any word program is a word.
So it may be a name of a person it may be a name of a place or it may be a.
Any word from dictionary.
These are nothing but a character.
So actually character is just a single letter, a single letter is a character right.
But together they are forming it as a string.
So we call this as string in our program.
So string is nothing but a collection of alphabets or characters that are forming a single entity that
is a string so string may be a name of a person or a word or any word from missionary or a song.
So this also represented as string.
So if I talk about programming languages they support character type also and collection of characters
but a string.
So individual character also and the collection of characters both are supported by language.
So in C++ both are supported. now one thing.
As I said back, these numbers has to be represented in binary than then about the characters.
They are also represented in binary. binary means it's a numeric then these are characters.
So yes there are some codes a use for representing characters that we learn when we talk about characters.
So this is about different data types we use in daily life and I have categorized these daily user data
type in the data types that we use in our programs.
Now let us come to the next point see this type of data has to be stored in the memory so that program
can work on that.
So let us discuss up on this point.
So I will remove this.
I will discuss. when it comes to memory.
Memory is a defined are represented in terms of bytes so one byte if I take one bite is nothing but collection
of 8 bits.
So these are 8 bits.
So it's a collection of 8 bits and data is stored in the  form of zeros and ones in this one.
So whatever the form of bits may be.
Now this binary form we say it's a data.
Now the question is if you want to store in digitized data.
Shall we take just one byte? so in one bite.
What is the maximum number that we can store.
That is minimum is zero.
And the max is 255. so largest no. is 255 I cannot have bigger figures.
Yes.
Then shall we take more than one bites.
Shall we take two bytes or 4 bytes.
So that's it.
So this you will learn in the next video.
That is integer.
How many bytes it would take.
And what is the minimum value.
What is the maximum value it will store.
These are the type of things that we learned in the coming video.
OK.
So I'll give you the detailed explanation of all the data data that are available in C++ so the same
way we will learn integer type of data, how much memory it takes, how many bytes it will take.
Right.
So how many bytes and float type of data how many bytes it will take and character type of data how
many bytes it takes and how it is represented in the memory, we will learn about this.
So if you have the clear idea of what the data is then you can use them properly for storing your data.
So this was about size.
Now next important thing about variable I will discuss a little bit about variable.
So once you learn about the data types in the coming videos then later on we will learn how to take a
data or to store data in the program.
Suppose i want want integer type data.
Okay I will say integer then where do you store data.
So for that we declare a variable and say that I want a b c so I can get three variables depending on
the number of bytes taken my integer if it  is taking two bytes then I get two  bytes  provide for each
and if they are taking 4 bytes then they will get 4-4 bytes for each.
I get the variables like this and then we will use this variable name in our programs like say
a assigned 10 or b assign 5 then C assign a plus b we do it like this we performed operations store the
data.
So ten is  stored in this one and five is stored in this one and the result is stored in this one.
So that's all in the programs.
We use the names of the variable that is stored in the memory.
So we don't use the memory addresses but we use the names.
So that is the concept of variable.
So a variable is used for storing data.
This is used for storing data the next what type of data you must mentioned that type of data also. based
on that.
We can have the value of that data type.
See this integer doesn't allow decimal so we can use only integer if you want float then declared it as
float then you can store float in this one also.
So these concept we will learn them in detail in coming videos.
This was just an introduction.
So continue with the next video and you learn details about data types.